Brennan HughesSlime Mold Simulation ImprovementsThere are some aspects to this project that I deem incomplete or inadequate.First, I believe that using a greedy best-first pathfinding algorithm is not the best way to simulate the plasmodium as it is too “deterministic”. The plasmodium makes perfect beelines to the food’s location and looks quite unnatural.I have an idea as to what might make this look better, but I do not currently have the skills to implement it. The new method will involve creating a probability mass function that will assign each cell on the edge of the plasmodium (called the “frontier” in my code) a probability of reproducing that is related to its distance to food (closer to food means higher probability of reproducing). The issue here is that for each frame, I would need to calculate each frontier cell’s distance to each food particle and create a function for that unique set of distances. I currently do not have the mathematical knowledge to create such a function but hope to revisit the project when I come up with an efficient way to do this.This gets more complicated when I introduce another improvement that I would like to make. Currently, the plasmodium has an exact knowledge of the location of every food particle (for use in the best-first heuristic). This means that if the starting cell is as far away from a food particle as it can possibly be, it will still make a perfect beeline to the food. Ideally, I would like to introduce some sort of diffusion that will give food particles a “scent” that will diffuse over time, and the plasmodium will only know of its location if a frontier cell picks up on the scent. To further complicate things, I would like the scent to be stopped by walls so that the plasmodium grows in a direction that will lead it to the food. Once again, I do not currently have the skillset required, but I also believe that I would have to completely overhaul the code to implement this change, which time does not allow.